So we were talking about there was some diversity
and some reasonable respect for that diversity.
In my class,
in my freshman group, we had a couple of Jewish
guys. We had three. at least three Hispanics.
And I may be the wrong one to comment on this, but
they probably suffered more discrimination than
I knew. But from my standpoint, those people were
all accepted on the basis of their abilities and
not on the basis of what they were or what they
weren't. And in my class, By the time we were
seniors, the Corps Commander was Hispanic and
still a very good friend of mine. Was Hector? Oh, I
know Hector well. And Hector was Corps Commander
not because they thought it was time for a Hispanic
Corps Commander, but because he was the best. And
he'd earned it. And nobody would disagree. So... I
think that's one of the things I always have
treasured about the way A&M was at that time was
that uniform at the core was a great leveling
factor. And it didn't matter what somebody, what
they dressed like when they came or how much money
they had or anything at all like that. It was a
matter of what you could accomplish and what was
inside you. Sort of the American ideal. What were
some of the prestigious student activity
organizations when you were an undergraduate?
Ah, boy. Bands, singing cadets, et cetera.
Well, the band was
large. Obviously, everybody had great pride.
Everybody kidded the band, band queers, all that
sort of thing, but everybody had great pride in the
band and how good it was. Ross Volunteers was an
outstanding organization at the Corps.
Singing Cadets, even now, I think the Singing
Cadets probably aren't appreciated as much by the
students as they probably should be because it
takes so much time and so much talent to be in that.
There are a lot of other student activities, the
student government things, MSC, a lot of those
different types of organizations, and that
established, in my mind, what is the importance of
education is more than just a classroom because
there were so many things down there where
students could be involved and learn skills that
were probably of greater value in the real world in
the business marketplace than what they might
learn in the classroom so I've been a very strong
advocate of those types of things which if you
could have been had your choice of any of those
student leadership roles, which ones do you think
had the highest prestige to be the number one
person of what, what, what?
Well, I don't know that I've ever tried to rank
those.
Being the president of the student body, the
president of the student senate at that time,
probably was more time consuming and immediately
probably had more prestige with the students in
some circles. In many, it probably didn't. Most of
the people who were active in that were regarded as
politicians. And if ever there's been a place
where there's probably disdain for student
politicians, it's A&M. The Yale leaders were
involved in a lot of things, and that was a
prestigious thing. Being the corps commander was
very, very prestigious, I think.
I don't know if there's any one of those that I would
think would have been . Were there any of those
organizations, other than the corps commander
and, say, the bands, were there any that you all
thought always should go to a corps member?
MSC Council, class president, student body
president? I think we probably would have been
more inclined to think student body president.
But see, even then, There was a fellow who was a good
friend of mine, civilian student, who was very
involved in the MSC and may have been very involved
in the student senate who was a civilian student.
There were and have previously been civilian
student yell leaders. I don't think that, I think
the culture at that time, my sense is that the
culture was not was not that we need to make sure we
have someone in the corps as the head of this, but
because it was just sort of assumed that that would
be. I don't think there was a sense of
preservation. It was assumed that the head would
always be somebody in the corps. It was more like,
can we let a civilian student be involved? Well,
sure. It's a little different orientation, if you
get my drift. Okay, one of the interesting little
items that I have learned to ask about, can you
share anything that you've ever heard about any
secret fraternities? No. You don't know of any?
You know, I don't.
I had that discussion kind of... three or four
years ago. I was told that there were some secret
fraternities in the Corps that had been uncovered
now that they supposedly went back to when I was in
school. I didn't know about it. I never heard about
it as a faculty member for 21 years. Some of these
people I've talked to, 30s and 40s, say yes. They
believe there was the TTs. And another one, the
stickers. As in swastika. Well, I'll tell you if
you want to stop that. Let's see.
Project houses. You didn't have any interaction
with anybody that lived over in the project
houses? Well, except to the extent that that was
usually married students. And, of course, you'd
have some in your classes. But, no, I don't
remember if I ever even went in one of them. Let's
see. Let's talk about football weekend. Describe
a typical home game football weekend in College
Station. What happened on Friday and Saturday?
OK. Friday night, you have midnight y'all
practice. Friday afternoons. you either knew
that maybe your parents or friends or maybe if you
were lucky enough to have a date, you'd be getting
ready for that somehow. Usually your outfit would
have some sort of activity like they'd want to
clean up everything or clean up your room,
whatever it would be. Saturdays,
if the game was in the afternoon, you'd have the
Describe the yoke practice. Where was it? Oh,
midnight yoke practice. Yeah. Where was it? What
happened? Make believe I've never been to one.
Well, OK. Let me see if I can remember now. Midnight
yoke practice would start in the core area. The
band would lead it. Everybody would follow behind
the band. It was sort of like an organized riot.
Of course, not too surprising, a lot of the people
had been drinking or whatever, although I don't, I
may be wrong, but I don't remember ever seeing
people carrying liquor bottles with them at the
time because it was, that was a pretty well
enforced rule. But there might have been people
who'd been out drinking before that. And then it
would wind around campus, That's incorrect.
Leave the core area and march down past where the
coldness building is now and go into the stadium.
And the midnight yoke practice was held in the
stadium. And my recollection is that it was...
Yeah, that's... Okay. Whitley.
We were talking about yell practice. Now what
were, you got into the stadium, and then what
events occur in the stadium as a part of yell
practice? Well, the idea was built around the
regular yell practice. You had the same formats.
And now I think they use microphones. I don't
remember. in those days whether they used
microphones they may have but i don't remember it
wasn't necessary because everything was done by
signals and all that but the uh it was extended it
was longer than a regular yell practice the The
yell leaders would tell stories, jokes, fables,
usually about making fun of the other team that we
were playing, or a lot of times about girls. That
was always a popular source of jokes at that time,
because there weren't many girls around.
There'd be the band would play. There may be more to
it. I don't care. And it would end at about what
time? I think probably about 1 o'clock, something
like that. OK, now let's go to Saturday. What
happened on Saturdays or home games? Well, let's
see.
I don't ever remember. With certain exceptions, I
don't ever remember having a Saturday formation
or doing anything with the Corps. But you'd have to
have your room ready for inspection. If you'd have
people coming up, parents or friends or whatever,
If the game was, if it was an afternoon game, we had a
lot of night games in those days, if it was an
afternoon game, you'd have to be ready by about 11
o'clock, I would think, for a two o'clock game,
because they'd have the Corps march into the
stadium. And of course, that was always graded, so
you'd have an inspection, they'd have you think
that the future of the free world depended upon
that, and then you'd march to the stadium, march
around the track, then you'd go off, be dismissed
following that, and you'd go sit in the stadium. I
think now they go back to the dorms and change
clothes or something like that. We didn't do that.
We'd go straight to the stadium. All right, now if
you had a date for the game, you parted company with
her where? Usually at the dorm. And you'd give her
your tickets. And then you'd meet her after the
march in up there. That was one reason it was a
little bit more fun, if I remember, to have dates
who knew each other. So several of you could sit
together and the dates would know each other. That
made it a little bit more fun. Describe a court
trip. A court
trip. In those days, there was either one trip a
year to Fort Worth or Dallas and one to Houston or
Austin. And so there was really two here, and
everybody would go find a place to stay
frequently. You'd have 17 guys at your house if you
were from this area. A lot of play, there'd be core
parties if you wanted to go to those. A lot of guys
would use that as an excuse to just go get drunk. But
then on Saturday morning, Right early, you had to
be in either, wherever you were in that downtown
area and be ready to march. And then you'd march in a
parade in the downtown of whatever one of those
four cities. Here in Fort Worth, where did y'all
gather and where did you march? In Fort Worth, we
would gather actually about three blocks from
where we're sitting. Downtown area, right down
here off Main Street. They changed the parade
route several times, but basically you'd march
through the downtown area to one end from the north
end of downtown to the south and then back up, and it
was a pretty good hike. Fort Worth was a better
place to do a parade than a lot of other places. In
Austin, you'd march right down Congress Avenue.
In Houston, I don't remember where we were. I
presume Main Street. I think so, but I don't
remember enough about it. In Dallas, was it
Commerce? I think probably down Commerce Street.
How did the onlookers on the sidewalks react to a
bunch of Aggies marching by? When you asked that
question, my mind immediately thought, did we
ever encounter any hostility? I don't remember
anything. I think it was always parents, friends,
Former students, people who bring their kids. I
used to, gosh, for years after I got out of school,
every time A&M would be, the Corps would be here,
I'd take my kids down to see them march. It's just
always great. Always a lot of fun. What were some of
your favorite football game memories? Do you
remember any games that were really special?
Sure.
I remember the... for various things, for various
reasons. I remember, of course, we beat Texas in
1967. That meant that we won the conference and
went to the Cotton Hole. That was a great football
game. I remember when I was a freshman or
sophomore, I think it was freshman, we played
Florida State in College Station. I don't even
remember if we won the game or not, but I remember it
rained the whole game. And we stood in that thing,
and it was the wettest game. I've gone to a few games
since then that were pretty wet, but I'll never,
that Colorado State game was the top, just
everything was wet. I remember we played SMU one
time in the first part of the 1967 season and lost to
them right at the end of the game, three or four
seconds left. We thought we were gonna have a good
team, and we ended up losing that game too. I
remember coming up here to TCU one year, the year
that we won the conference, and a guy intercepted a
pass in the end zone by Billy Hobbs for an
intercepted pass and ran it back like 102 yards or
something for a touchdown. Yeah, they were a lot of
good games.
Final review for you. Do you have any memories of
that being a special?
Yeah, I guess so.
Of course, it's always special when you're a
freshman, because that's interesting. Compare
those two, freshman and senior. Yeah, I was just
about to say, I've never thought about that until
you asked. But the same event can mean so many
different things to so many different people.
After your freshman year, it's great because it
means that you finally survived. And that doesn't
just mean physical survival. It means you prove
something to yourself that you've at least made it
so many times when you might question whether you
would. And then
your senior year, well, it really means that this
is over. And this is a, you really got to do
something now. And, you know, the factor about
this is the last time I'll see most of these guys.
And at that time there was a war going on. And so you
weren't sure exactly what that was, what was going
to happen with that. Did any, did members of your
family, any special people there? Oh yeah, my
parents would have been there. I don't remember if
they were there at the final review for my freshman
year. I don't think they were, but I know my senior
year they would have been. That was the same day I
graduated and got commissioned. I graduated in
four years.
They were there for that. That's just one of those
things that you remember. What made commencement
special? Just the fact that I was graduating. Do
you remember who the speaker was? No, I don't. I
don't. I've tried to think about that. And I bet if I
went back and looked at my yearbook or really made
some effort, I could find it. And it's probably
somebody that I would remember. I do remember, and
I tried to remember this the year I was president of
the association. I remember walking across the
stage, and I'm glad to see A&M still does these. I
remember walking across the stage, and President
Rudder shook my hand, and then I'm walking towards
the end, and I can still remember that Mr.
Peterson, Pete Peterson was fourth, and I knew him
a little bit. And he was, I think, probably
chairman of the Board of Regents at that time. And
Mr. Peterson came up and shook my hand. And that
meant a lot to me when you see somebody you know
doing that. So I tried to remember when I was
president of the association, if I'd see anybody
that I knew or knew somebody in their family, I'd
speak to them. But yeah, that was a, in fact, you
know, I think kids now graduating, there's a
little bit of a sense that they're in the, They hate
to leave because College Station was kind of a
cocoon. In those days, I wanted to get out. I wanted
to go on. I don't know, I liked it, but I was ready for
it to be over. What kind of a world, you said there
was a war going on, what kind of a world did you think
you were about to enter? What was ahead of you as far
as you could tell at that point? I didn't know. I've
always maintained
Until about April,
well, until about 60 days or so before I graduated,
I wasn't sure what I was going to be doing. And
frankly, what happened was I knew I was going to be
commissioned. And in those days, it was so
different than it is now. I had a friend who
suggested, in fact, this is a true story. It's
probably more than you want to know. There were
three or four of us that were talking about going to
law school. And this friend of mine was really the
one who was pushing it. And I figured, well, I'm
going to end up in Vietnam. And he said one time,
well, let's go to Austin and see what it takes to get
into law school. Now, this is dumb. And here we
were, seniors about to graduate, and didn't know
what it took to get in. But I figured, I'm going to go
to the Army. Well, three of us went over there. One
of them was Bill Mayholms, the black guy. So I mean,
this almost sounds like a joke. There were two
white guys and a black guy from A&M going to law
school. And we literally went over there to the
dean of admissions office and said, we'd like to
find out what it takes to get in law school. And I
thought it was going to be some long process. He
said, well, it's simple. Tell me your grades. Tell
me your LSAT score. Well, I've taken that because I
knew you had to take it and I had that. He said,
that's simple. That's all. All you got to tell me.
And so the three of us went around the room and told
him. And it literally was the case where I had the
best grades and the best essay possible. And he
told me, he says, you're in. You apply, you're
admitted. Wow, I'm lying. And the guy who'd really
been the one pushing us was borderline. He said, I
don't know. You're close. And Bill, the black guy,
had lower grades, lower law school tests. And he
said, well, by your grades, you shouldn't get in.
But I'd like to talk with you some more. So our
friend who commissioned us to go over there on the
way back said, well, I can see what's going to
happen. Creel's in, Mayholmes is in, and he says,
Bill's gonna end up going to the University of
Houston. That's exactly what happened. And all of
us went on to law school, and all of us have done
fairly well. On that drive back,
the one thing that it made me really think
seriously about going to law school and pursue it
some was that I'd also gone at my friend's behest.
The University of Texas had sent some people over
to A&M to talk with students who were interested in
studying law school to talk about it. And I still
remember that the guy they sent over very young
professor at the University of Texas named
Stanley Johansen. And Stanley is one of my
favorite law school professors and just one of the
most remarkable people. And I remember thinking,
this guy is sensational. And he made it sound
interesting. And then probably a couple of months
later, we go over there, and the guy says, you're in
if you want to go. And so I remember thinking on the
way back, hey, I'm going to apply. I'm going to go
over there because I can go there. And frankly, my
thought was maybe by the time I'm through there,
this war will be over with and I won't have to go to
Vietnam. So that's what happened. And so I was
eager to go to law school. And I've often told
people, I'm surprised no one's done the study of
this. I don't think that anybody could study the
late 60s without realizing The total cultural
divide that existed at that time between Austin
and College Station, it was the total difference
in cultures between those two places. In June of
1969, I was in College Station. In September of
1969, I was resigning in Austin and was likely
living in a foreign country. Did you and your
classmates, fellow students, hear any reports of
what had happened to Aggies in Vietnam? Sure,
sure. There was a guy who was a junior in my outfit
when I was a freshman. By the time I was a senior,
he'd been killed. And so we do some things about
that. We hear reports about that. Did you go to any
on-campus musters? Sure. Where were they held? I
don't remember any of them being inside G. Raleigh
as they are now, but I can remember going to them
right in front of the Systems Administration
building. And I think that may be where all of them
were. But I can remember that, so I don't remember
going to any of it any other way. Did those events
make any emotional impression on you? To some
extent, yeah.
I don't think that made as much emotional
impression on me as Silver Taps did. I was going to
ask you to describe Silver Taps. Silver Taps
occurred in front, actually now to the west of the
academic building, right in front of the Saul Ross
statue. That made an emotional impression on me
because it was... It occurred at night. There was
no lights around campus. And the only sound you
could hear was the Ross Volunteers, the firing
squad, the Ross Volunteers marching. And you
could hear them for blocks away. And they'd come
and they'd fire taps. Or they'd come and they'd
fire volley. And then there were a butler that
played taps, probably two or three butlers that
played taps. And where were the vehicles?
You know, I'm not sure. I think they were up, I think
they were probably up on the steps of the academic
building, but I never identified exactly where.
But that's the place I think they must have been. As
you all left Silver Taps, what was your follow-up
attitude and behavior pattern immediately
after? Silence. nobody spoke a word, and
technically you were supposed to have lights out
all over the campus. If you went back and you had to
study, you were advised to put a blanket or
something up over your window so there wouldn't
be, it was like a blackout. But that made more of an
impression on me probably at that age than
mustering it. Right, now let's go to the other
extreme. Where, say on a Saturday night, If a group
of Aggies wanted to go have a good time, cut up,
where did people go to kick over the traces?
Well, let's see. If you were in College Station,
there were places that you could go to. There was
some dancing places, I think. I don't remember if I
ever went to one or two of those. There were some
pizza places around that you could go and drink
beer and eat pizza.
Not nearly as many places there were. Was
Appalachian still going? No. Hard liquor? No.
Whiskey Bridge? Whiskey Bridge. You could go out
and buy liquor if you wanted to out west of the
county line, out by the river.
Boy, I don't remember. You can drive into Bryan, go
to the movie, or there were some places around. If
you had a special person, either girlfriend or
family, where would you have taken them? We're
talking about a positive now, a special. Sure,
sure. Well, if you wanted to go someplace to eat,
There was a place, I can't remember the name of it.
It was out on that road toward Whiskey Bridge. It
was a steak place. They had big old steaks. I can't
remember the name of that. And there were a few
other places. You were out of luck if you didn't
like chicken fried steak. That was about mainly
what they had. There were a couple of little
Mexican food places around. There weren't too
many really, not hardly any really nice places I
can think of. Let's see. Was Pinky still there?
Pinky Downs? Pinky was there. Maybe Pinky may have
died while I was in school, but I can still remember
Pinky walking around. I'd go just about every
morning, I'd go to the MSC. They had a reading room
down there. I could find the local Fort Worth paper
or something. I'd read that, and I can still
remember Pinky hanging out around there, and he'd
talk to you. Did you ever meet old Army Lou? Oh,
sure, sure. What made him special?
I think that Lupo was special to, I think that for
most people who were just buying books, there was
the old saying about you're not a true Aggie until
you've been screwed by a Lou. That's what some
people used to say. It was just a place to buy books
and he'd always have a line of gab he'd want to talk
to you. give you a dollar for friendship or
something like that. But I've heard too many
stories about Aggies who were kind of down on their
luck. And I think that's where he really
ingratiated himself was there were a lot of Aggies
who needed some money or this or that. And he really
helped a lot of those guys. And so I think that's
where his real legend grew was for helping people.
All right. We're talking about indulgences now.
Aggies smoked. What were they smoking?
Winston's,
Marlboro's, I guess. Did you ever hear any, when
you were a student, did you ever hear any hint of
anybody smoking anything other than tobacco?
God, no. No. I don't think any of us knew there was
anything else to smoke. And if they were drinking,
they were drinking what? Well,
beer. liquor, whiskey, just whatever your
pleasure was, whatever your personal preference
was. And did anybody chew or dip? There was some of
that, yeah. The guys who were, you know, mainly the
guys who'd grown up in West Texas on ranches or
whatever, yeah, there were some guys who did that.
All right, I have never heard any reports of houses
of ill repute, prostitution. In Bryan College
Station? Yeah. No, there was always a place in
LaGrange. I never went there, but there were guys I
knew who did go there. The chicken ranch was there?
Yeah, yeah.